I have a
confession I've never started the Toast
Masters Pathways program I know what
you're thinking what a fraud who is this
guy who puts out YouTube content about
how great Toast Masters is and he hasn't
even done the pathways program now I've
been a Toastmaster for more than 9 years
and I did do some of the Early Education
manuals I completed the competent
Communicator manual I completed the
competent leadership
manual and then my progress was partway
through the next steps of the program
and everything changed Toast Masters
decided that it was going online to the
pathways program and I don't know what
it was perhaps it was stubbornness
perhaps it was reluctance to learn a new
system but I didn't figure out Pathways
and for the past number of years I've
simply signed up for very ious roles at
Toastmasters meetings and that's all
I've done is doing roles and I think
that alone speaks to how great Toast
Masters is in the sense that you can
simply sign up for roles and get a ton
out of the program it's time for me to
give up the stubbornness and finally
Embrace The Toast Masters Pathways
program now this is great because the
path I'm taking on is motivational
strategies and what this means for you
is that you'll get to see my Journey
documented I plan to video record the
speeches that I will be doing and share
that on my YouTube channel so that you
can follow along and I wanted to start
that Journey right now because I am
preparing for the Icebreaker speech
which is the first step in many of the
paths probably all of the paths
definitely for motivational strategies
and so as I'm preparing my own speech I
wanted to give you some helpful tips for
how you can take on the Icebreaker
speech as well my first piece of advice
is to not stress too much about the ice
breaker which is easier said than done
because your first speech at Toast
Masters you're going to feel a certain
level of pressure but please know that
is normal and it doesn't have to be
perfect the ice breaker is all about
establishing where you are in your
journey with Toast Masters and from
there I promise you will grow the more
meetings that you attend there's no
question your skill set will get better
you're not supposed to be perfect at
speech number one there's various
abilities that people have coming into
Toast Masters but the Icebreaker is just
about identifying where you are at next
you're going to think about what should
your Icebreaker speech be about and for
many people they talk about why they
chose to join Toast Masters and that's a
fine topic to take on but you're not
limited to that you can speak about
whatever you'd like some questions you
can ask yourself what are you passionate
about what are your future goals what
are your hobbies what was your
upbringing like hopefully these are
questions that stir some ideas forward
and this could be the topic of your
Icebreaker it's whatever you want to
present on for your Club one of the best
ways to approach a toast Master's
Icebreaker speech is to incorporate
personal stories and so I want you to do
something right now I want you to pull
out a piece of paper or your phone and
the notes app within your phone and I
want you to write down five stories that
you know are stories that usually get a
good reaction from the people you tell
these stories to so perhaps you've told
friends this story at the pub or you've
told a story at family gatherings maybe
it gets lots of laughs maybe it's really
interesting or something that defied All
Odds whatever these stories are I want
you to come up with five right now and
write those down and then if there's any
way to incorporate one of these stories
into your Icebreaker speech I encourage
you to do so because when we tell a
story that is familiar to us within a
speech it makes it so much easier to
remember and usually it makes the speech
more engaging as well the Icebreaker
speech is a great chance to start
understanding ing basic speech structure
and there are three elements to any
speech a beginning or an introduction a
middle and a
conclusion the
introduction does just that it
introduces to the audience what the
speech is going to be about as you get
more advanced you'll learn to do
introductions that hook the audience's
attention but that's not what you're
worried about right now the middle of
the speech or the body is the main
structure maybe there's three main
points to your speech if you're doing a
speech about public speaking fear and
why you've joined host Masters maybe
part one of the body is a horrifying
situation you had when a speech didn't
go well the second Point might be the
realization that you needed to improve
this skill set and the third Point might
be what you hope to accomplish through
Toast Masters so that's the body usually
three or five main points that build the
structure of the speech and the
conclusion it wraps everything up it
brings everything together it may recap
all of the body pieces that you've
already talked about but it's a good way
to finish your speech and these three
elements are usually a key part of any
great presentation now it's completely
reasonable to assume that you're going
to use notes when you deliver your
Icebreaker speech but I will tell you
one of the goals you want to aim for
with Toast Masters is eventually not
having to read speeches word for word
off of a piece of paper so if it's at
all possible to reduce those notes
rather than writing out a full speech
word for word try using key bullet
points that will jog your memory and
that even if you freeze while you're
presenting in front of the audience you
can quickly glance down see your bullet
point note and that will remind you what
to talk about next I promise you a
limited use of notes is an incredibly
rare and impressive thing to see for any
Icebreaker speech so if you're able to
accomplish that thumbs up that is just
you jumping steps ahead on your toast
Master's Journey the next thing to know
about a toast Master's Icebreaker speech
is the
formalities there are these interesting
formalities that are used at
Toastmasters meeting
thank you Mr Toastmaster thank you madam
table topics master all of these
different terms that you may not be used
to the one to remember is that there
will be a Toastmaster introducing you
and the fact that you're giving the
Icebreaker speech so at some point you
want to say thank you Mr or Madam
Toastmaster fellow Toast Masters and
welcome guests if there are any guests
who are in the audience this is the
formality if you don't say it perfectly
don't worry about it there's a lot of
time to figure this out and eventually
it will become second nature but if
you're able to include the formalities
bonus points on your Icebreaker my last
piece of advice for taking on the
Icebreaker speech is to practice more
than you think you need to and I know I
said earlier not to stress about this
and you shouldn't this is a
representation of where you're at but I
will say for every speech you give in
the future the better speeches or the
better you will do is directly
correlated with how much you practice
and you want to make sure that you felt
that you gave it your best effort for
that first speech so without stressing
too much still give yourself a minimum
three or four times to practice the
speech in its entirety if you want to go
more than that go for it but minimum
practice that speech three or four times
in the week leading up and I know it's
going to go great and whether the speech
goes fantastic or absolutely horrible
don't worry this is what Toast Masters
is all about it is a safe place to learn
it is a safe place to grow and this is
just the beginning of your toast
Master's Journey heck I'm someone who's
been in it for N9 years I haven't even
done Pathways yet and that's something
I'm really excited about is that you'll
get to follow along On my journey I will
be posting my own no ice breaker pretty
soon here which hopefully gives you some
added inspiration I hope this video was
encouraging and helpful for you if it
was please subscribe to my channel
that's the best way that you can support
me and what I do and I want to share
this video popping up on the screen
right now because this is something I
mentioned before about building a speech
with a great introduction hooking your
audience so I think that this video is
going to add a a lot of value to you